============
mmpack-build
============

---------------------
build mmpack packages
---------------------

:Author: Gabriel Ganne <gabriel.ganne@mindmaze.ch>,
         Nicolas Bourdaud <nicolas.bourdaud@mindmaze.ch>
:Date: 2018-10-25
:Manual section: 1

SYNOPSIS
========

``mmpack-build`` --version

``mmpack-build`` -h|--help

``mmpack-build`` --list-commands

``mmpack-build`` *command* [*command options*]

DESCRIPTION
===========
**mmpack-build** is used to build both binary and source software packages.

A package consists of an archive of files and meta-data used to install and erase
the archive files. Packages come in two varieties: binary packages, used to
encapsulate software to be installed, and source packages, containing the source
code and recipe necessary to produce binary packages.

If no command is explicit, default to **pkg-create**.

OPTIONS
=======

``--version``
  Display **mmpack-build** version

``-h|--help``
  Show help and exit

command
  Run given **mmpack-build** command. Most common commands are:
  **pkg-create**, **clean**, **builddep**

ENVIRONMENT
===========

``XDG_CONFIG_HOME``
  Defaults to ``~/.config`` if unset.
  Contains mmpack configuration file: ``mmpack-config.yaml``

``XDG_CACHE_HOME``
  Defaults to ``~/.cache`` if unset.
  Contains mmpack temporary files. Those can be deleted or overwritten at
  any moment by mmpack or the system itself.
  Said temporary files can be copies of the source files used to create a
  binary package, objects, generated files ...

``XDG_DATA_HOME``
  Defaults to ``~/.local/share`` if unset.
  Contains the packages generated by **mmpack-build**


``MMPACK_PREFIX``
  If set, **mmpack-build** will parse the given prefix tree when looking for
  package dependencies. If unset, **mmpack-build** will only use the system
  tree.

EXAMPLE
=======

| # create mmpack package from local sources during development on a branch named *feature*
| mmpack-build pkg-create --git-url=/path/to/sources --tag=feature
|
| # same but also skipping the tests
| mmpack-build pkg-create --git-url=/path/to/sources --tag=feature --skip-build-tests
|
| # create arbitrary project on tag v1.2.3 from git server
| mmpack-build pkg-create --git-url=ssh://git@intranet.mindmaze.ch:7999/project.git --tag=v1.2.3
|
| # create packages from source tarball
| mmpack-build pkg-create --src=project_1.2.3_src.tar.gz

SEE ALSO
========
``mmpack``\(1),
``mmpack-build-pkg-create``\(1),
``mmpack-build-clean``\(1),
``mmpack-build-builddep``\(1),
